Exercise 2

For this exercise, use the horse racing dataset found in the file "runner_bets.csv".
In this exercise we check the bets of various people betting horses using the same model.

Definitions:
- "Runner" is the name of the person who placed the bet.
- "ExpROI" is the model's expected return on investment. 
- "Stake" is the amount the runner successfully placed on the selection.
- "PriceTaken" is the odds that the runner placed, in decimal format. 
- "EW" is a binary indicator of whether the bet was an Each Way bet. 
- "Terms" is the denominator in the EW price. e.g.) Terms = 3 implies a 1/3 EW bet.
- "Deduction" is the "Rule 4" deduction for the horse. e.g.) Deduction = 0.1 implies a 10p deduction.
- "BSP" is the Betfair Starting Price, the odds found on Betfair Exchange for the horse to win at the race start time.
- "BSPplace" is the Betfair Starting Price for the horse to place, found at the race start time.

Q1:
Assume that BSP and BSPplace are prices representing the true probability for a horse to win and place, respectively.
Plot the cumulative PnL and EV as a function of time in days.
Plot a 2-week rolling PnL and EV average.
Do you think that your assumed EV is an accurate representation of your real edge? (Hint: Run a Monte Carlo simulation).

Q2:
Analysis:
a) Check the performance of your model based on ExpROI. Are bets with higher ExpROI more valuable?
b) Check the performance of your model based on the time of the day the bet was placed. Do you see any significant results?
c) Check how you perform on horses relative to stake size. i.e. does the performance differ on horses you staked a lot vs the ones you staked less? How would you interpret the results?

Q3:
Assume the people betting (the runners) are working for you.
a) Think of a way to rank them from best to worst.
b) Would you keep working with all of them? If no, then would you drop some? Explain your answer.

c) Check how you perform on horses you staked a lot vs ones you staked less. How would you interpret this?

Q3:
Assume the people betting are working for you.

Think of a way to rank them from best to worst.
Would you keep working with all of them? Would you drop some ?
Explain your answer